# Destiny of a nation is shaped in its classrooms

---
Writer | Adib
---

The cycle of life of every person passes through some predetermined phases. Every human is born and nourished by the parents or the guardians those who are not fortunate enough to be blessed with parents in their lives. Most important however for development of a child from an amateur, innocent soul to a capable, ready to face the world independent individual is someone who is learned experienced and most importantly willing to pass on the skills to the child. A teacher can take many names or forms in anyone's life. Most essential and maybe the easiest form of making the masses capable is through the temple of education called schools, where children get themselves exposed to the world first times in their lives. Classrooms are the places where students learn essential skills in every walk of there lives. The quality of classrooms and teaching defines the progress which a country is in.
Major world economies invest a great share of their GDP In the education sector primarily to improve the traditional classroom teachings before any technologically motivated and driven initiatives. India, for example, has gifted itself with what I believe should have been the very first step of the nation in its planning which started in the 1950s ie. RTE (Right To Information), which aims at providing primary education to children below 14 compulsorily, it identifies the hurdles which students might face and alongside the schooling would help to tackle these problems as well.

Explaining on one such problem, the issue of nutrition which the marginalized class of children face. Various surveys conducted in order to study the reason of massive dropouts in India pointed out malnutrition and need for extra labor in the Indian households as the reason. Students were lost by the classrooms, their chances to add significantly to the growth of nation was nullified by mere issue of food and basic income incapacity. The government thus came out with an idea already which was in practice in the western world. 
Students were provided food free cost in the middle of the day to retain them in school and thus add some extra classroom time in their lives. Income problem of the families which forced the children to work was tackled through another program which can be said to be a diluted framework already in work in European nations like Switzerland, NREGA.
The title given to this excerpt is highly justified also because of the fact that classrooms directly help in making people of the country better capable to face the world, impart skills to them, but also at the same time as seen in the previous decades, one problem of education keeping classrooms at the foundation was used to solve problems like poverty, through NREGA and
malnutrition, through Mid Day Meal Scheme by the government at the same time.
I once heard from a person that India as a country has least to offer anything to the world except for people. Well, on the face of it a nationalist without rationality would certainly tend to question the insensitivity of the person. But, at the same time, one should look into the fact that the statement is not wrong if not true at least. India has a population of 125 crore people. Majority of the people are engaged in the primary sector(agriculture), the secondary or manufacturing sector is missing which is a major absorber of labor in the world, tertiary sector or the services sector has flourished in India. From all these sectors agriculture and manufacturing are essentially machinery
based sectors shown by the fact they only flourished in other countries only after the industrial revolution, whereas tertiary sector can be called as personnel or service provider dependent (software development can’t be feasible without developers). Blossoming of tertiary sector in India
thus clearly indicate that India certainly has if nothing else at least its skilled labor to offer. How otherwise silicon valley might run I wonder.
This is not a matter to argue on the harsh wordings but to actually take out inference what India can capitalize on. The classrooms are the foundations for such demographic empowerment of the citizens.

The government takes initiatives on regular basis to improve the classroom experience of the students. Taking up the initiatives like Digital India would further strengthen the technical back of the classrooms. Exposing the students even outside the class through the programs like Guru-Shishya parampara also adds to the quality disposal.

There is no second thought that Indian classrooms are nurturing the destiny as they contain the minds which would run the country tomorrow. But the sentence that destiny is shaped in the classrooms must include- Destiny is shaped and made in classrooms.