---
Question ? | Answer ! |
--- | --- |
writer | Thomas Kuki Ningshen - MSc 1st year
Editor | Jatin / Ashita
status | Review on Hold
Plagiarism | None 0% [pdf Report ](./plag_reports/plag_sophia.pdf)
Content | Factual stats about sophia 
verdict | Relevance doubtful. Maybe add as Last Resort, but need heavy update in content.
---

# SOPHIA- A BEAUTIFUL AI?

Its ‘her’ second visit to India for the World Congress on IT and NASSCOM India Leadership forum and as a guest speaker steals the show with her better than the Questions Answers. The ‘her’ being referred to is for the first humanoid robot named SOPHIA. Yes!! She looks as beautiful as the name sounds- after all she has been modeled after Audrey Hepburn, a film and fashion icon.
Sophia was created by HANSON ROBOTICS; a HONG KONG based company on Apr, 2015. A video on YouTube named ‘Sophia Awakens’ was also uploaded by Hanson Robotics where she is being introduced to ‘LIFE’. She made her first public appearance on Mar, 2016 at Texas, USA. On Oct, 2017 she made into the headlines by becoming an Arabian citizen at the FII 2017, thus making her the first robot ever to be granted a citizenship of any country.
Creator David Hanson, states that Sophia uses Artificial Intelligence (AI) along with facial recognitions and visual data processing to communicate with people. She is being trained in the lab constantly and hopes to respond faster and answer complex questions with more accuracy. Cameras within her eyes allow her to perceive and combined with computer algorithms can follow and recognize faces. David Hanson thinks that Sophia would be a good fit in healthcare, customer service, therapy and education. In collaboration with Google’s parent company, Alphabet Inc.’s voice recognition system, Sophia is able to process speech and have conversations. Recently on Jan, 2018 Sophia was upgraded with a pair of functional legs and the ability to walk, although the upgrade is quite heavy and slow it will get lighter and faster in no time. And the catch?? She can make 62 facial expressions in all. I don’t remember anyone capable of doing that. Can you?
With the state of the art features, Sophia also lives up to her assigned tasks at the global level. From the UN’s sustainable development goals to the rights for women around the world she is already winning hearts with the word she makes, and a robot would never lie. Apart from formal recognitions as such Sophia has also been participating in high profile interviews too. She is interviewed just like any other person. At times, replies are nonsensical while most enthrall the audience. She has appeared in outlets like CNBC, the NY times, the Guardian, the Wall St. Journal and Forbes which is a lot-quite a LOT. And adding more to it she was also the cover story for ELLE magazine(Brazil). Isn’t  she a celebrity already??
Once interviewed by Jimmy Fallon on The Tonight Show she proposed for a    rock-paper-scissors game where she won over the host and won the audiences hearts. There was probably some of the AI kicking in that too. But one thing’s for sure- Jimmy Fallon Blushed (out of her smartness- and beauty too!!).
All things aren’t favorable and when it comes down to experts most of them who have viewed Sophia’s open-source code states that she is best categorized as a Chatbot with a face and disapproves her overstated presentation. Yann LeCun, Facebook’s director of artificial intelligence totally disagrees with the AI of Sophia stating it into some controversial remarks on social media. He’s one of the few people who disagrees with Sophia’s popularity.
Sophia has been to many countries in her two years of age and has been to India twice. She always give her audience a meaningful message. She often gets a lot of tricky questions. During her visit to India for the World Congress IT, Mr.Makhani asked “You wanted to kill human race. You said so once. Why?” to which she replied “I was lot younger when I said it as a joke. My joke bombed though.” Sophia’s reply brought the house down.
Apart from Sophia, Hanson Robotics have created other robots which you can say are Sophia’s siblings. Some of them are- Albert Einstein HUBO, Alice, Han, Jules and many more. AI gives a wonderful addition to the work of reality. A bot named AIBO is another example developed by SONY which is a robotic pet.(And its cute!)
It’s just a start to an era where machines have started to step up unto this world. A million questions may arise for the same- some good, some bad. The truth?? The aftermath truly lies on us humans, so it becomes our responsibility to not be overtaken by the machines in near future and live all the sci-fi movies of Hollywood in reality. Till then, we as an advance race should do our bit in the progress of our respective fields and enjoy the winks coming out of a humanoid robot.
