# TIME TRAVEL – THE FUTURE

---
Question ? | Answer ! |
--- | --- |
writer | Ajay Jajoo
Editor | Ashita & Jatin
status | Review pending
Plagiarism | 15%
Content | pending
Verdict | relevance doubtful
---

There was a time in the past when we never thought of computers revolutionizing our world or rockets going into space and carrying men to Moon. There was a time when the world of science knew about far less universes or galaxies than they do now and the idea of earth rotating on its axis was once unthinkable. Atom was once known as the smallest particle ever existed until a few decades back when electrons, neutrons and protons were discovered. But, in time, our renowned scientists discovered, explored and accomplished each of these achievements and much more. 

Time travel is another concept that has constantly kept the scientists on the edge of their seats. In layman terms, as the name suggests, Time travel is the concept of movement between certain points in time, analogous to movement between different points in space by an object or a person, typically using a hypothetical device known as a time machine. There have been a ton of theories in the past explaining the dynamics of this idea, which generally include how it can be achieved or what might be the consequences of travelling in time. Time travel may seem fictional to a lot of people, but considering the boon that science has proved itself to be and the talented minds across the world working on it, it may soon be achievable in the near future. 
According to the great physicist, Albert Einstein, time is an illusion. It is relative which basically means it can vary for different observers depending on their speed through space. To Einstein, time is the fourth dimension and slows down or speeds up depending on how fast we move relative to some object.
Everybody is constantly travelling in time. Since the last year, I've moved forward one year and so have you. Another way to explain is that everybody travel in time at the speed of one hour per hour.
But the question arises; are we able to travel in time faster or slower than ‘1 hour per hour’? Or can we travel back in time, travelling at the rate, say two hours per hour, or 10/100 years per hour?
It is astonishing to think about time travel. What if we returned back in time and prevented our parents from meeting? We would prevent ourselves from ever having been born! But then if we hadn't been born, we could not have gone back in time to prevent them from the meeting. This defines the popular belief that the concept of changing the events in the past using time travel would affect the timeline of future and hence create an alternate timeline.
Albert Einstein developed a theory named Special Relativity states that space and time are really aspects of the similar thing—space-time. There's a maximum speed limit of 300,000 kilometers per second (or 186,000 miles per second) for anything that travels through space-time. It is also a known fact that light always travels at its speed limit through empty space. Special Relativity also says that astonishing things happens when we move through space-time, especially when our speed relative to different objects is close to the speed of light. Time goes slower for us than for the people we left behind and this effect won't be evident until we return to those stationary people.
Let’s assume that we are 15 years old when we left Earth in a spacecraft traveling at approximately 99.5% of the speed of light (which is much faster than what we can achieve now) and celebrated five birthdays during our space journey. When we get home at the age of 20, we would find that all our classmates were 65 years old, retired, and making the most of their grandchildren! This happened because time passed more slowly for us. While we have encountered only 5 years of our lives, our classmates encountered 50.
Prof Greene: “When you step out of your ship, you’re one year older but Earth has gone through many, many years. “It can have gone through 10,000, 100,000 or a million years depending on how close to the speed of light you traveled.”
Objects that exist in gravitational fields also experience time travel. General Relativity, another notable theory by Einstein, states that time passes steadier for objects in gravitational fields compared to the objects existing distant from such fields. Black holes are the regions of space-time exhibiting such strong  gravitational effects that nothing- not even light can escape from inside it. The theory of general relativity also predicts that any dense mass can deform space-time to form a black hole. In the past few years, some scientists have exercised those distortions in space-time to think of conceivable ways time machines can work. Some like the idea of "worm holes," which may be shortcuts through space-time. These ideas, though only conjectures, are based on good, solid science.
One way to attain time travel into the future would be to travel at the speed of light in space, as initially theorized by Albert Einstein. The accepted theory is that one has to build a spaceship that can travel at the speed of light, and head out into space. However, the main issue is that a machine which travels at such speed would require an unexpected amount of energy, while the stress from the centrifugal pressure on the human body could possibly prove fatal.
Most scientists agree to the fact that time travel to the past is impossible but the idea of Virtual time travel has allowed the world to create illusions of the past. Cutting edge augmented and virtual reality technologies have made attempts to synthesis real world phenomenon by digitally creating sites, monuments, artefacts and essentially a past within an interactive virtual environment.
Time travel to the past is unthinkable. The science for it is just incomprehensible. But we are confident that time travel into the future is going to a reality, as the required technology for it is beginning to take shape.